The Joe Rogan experience.
You hanging in there.
I have not been off of my property more or less in two weeks.
So it's crazy to see another human being.
Yeah. I don't think this is healthy for us. I know this lockdown.
Everybody's so weirded out. He want to run into people, walking dogs.
Like they don't want the dogs to get close to each other. Like, hi,
everyone's across the street. Hi.
And I'm a hugger, right? And we're in California.
So I'm a hugger in California in all of my instincts around.
Everything's all messed up. Everyone's confused. Here's the big question.
How long does it take before we normalize and go back? Like,
let's say the end of July, everyone announces,
we've got this thing locked down. We have a viable treatment.
It's no different than the flu that gets you,
this chlorine queen with the pack or whatever the current
treatment is. Yeah. When the people start hugging again.
It's going to be crazy. I mean,
I think that the idea is we're all so starved for touch. Yeah.
Like we're going to have a Jubilee.
Like you've never seen people are going to greet each other with tongues who are
almost like just acquaintance.
I think that's a good idea.
There's still colds and cooties and all that other stuff.
But I think, I think everybody's losing their. They definitely.
Are.
I've been talking to a lot of friends that are on the I'm extremely cautious
side. Let's say that. And you know,
they're not going anywhere and they're wearing gloves and masks.
When they step outside their house to go do something in the backyard.
And then they put the glove and mask down and they spray it with Lysol and they
come inside and.
It's not healthy. And it is also healthy. I mean,
the idea that we have not been tested in so long,
it's good to remember also that the stuff is live
and real, and it has always been live and real. And you know,
if it was possible to live without this stuff, that would be one thing.
But the 75 year nap that we've been in since 1945 is itself the
greatest threat to all of us. Right. And, and,
and our preparedness is just a wonderful indicator, um,
where you actually get to see, this is the quality of your experts.
This is the quality of your leadership.
This is what they look like when put under stress. That's.
True. Right? That is a good, that's a good thing.
And I'm impressed with the medical community.
I'm impressed with the people that are recognizing that this is a huge problem,
not so impressed with the administration of a lot of these hospitals that
haven't prepared in terms of like masks and ventilators and a lot of these other
things, not so impressed with politicians, but also,
it just seems like every one, like you said,
was in this nap state and hadn't really been tested and really
globally, no one had been tested since the pandemic of 1918,
like this right. 68.
Uh, which I had,
I had the Hong Kong flu and 57 were sort of the best parallels
to this. You've.
Got the Hong Kong flu and 16, I had the Hong Kong.
Flu and was sick as a dog, San Francisco.
I was like 3, 2, 3, 4.
I think it went from 68 to 78 somebody. Oh yeah. And I was in San Francisco.
My grandma had to come up from LA to care for me. Um, it was,
it was bad. It was like one of my earliest memories. Yeah.
And so 68 and 57,
I think are the best comparables to this
before we go back to 1918. And almost nobody remembers these things.
Like it's very weird. Many people had never heard of the Hong Kong flu.
When I started talking about the fact that I'd had.
Vaguely remembered it until you just said it. And then I'm like,
I'm slightly older than you.
Right? Yeah. I'm 52.
I'm 54. Yeah. I don't remember the Hong Kong flu, but I do.
You know what I mean? Like I don't remember it personally. No.
But you as a health geek, um, are, are up on these sorts of things.
And so you understand the ways in which, you know, for example,
you can have a flu where the, I guess the cytokine storm, you know, is your,
your, the threat from your immunity,
your immune system is like bigger than the virus itself.
There are all of these various weird things that happen.
But I think that the let's call it the big nap. The big nap is itself.
The greatest threat to us. And this is, this is bad,
but it is also a shot across our bow. And you know,
this is what was happening in my mind when I was on here talking about the twin
nuclei problem of selling Adam, we didn't stop history.
It's not like we're past the atomic war. Like we figured that out. We just,
we just hit the pause button for a little while and we hit.
Yeah. The fear is also that nefarious players will take this
opportunity to erode civil law, civil rights,
to erode civil liberties and then China to gain power in the U
S market to gobble up a lot of stocks while everything is down and try to
increase their stake in our economy and try to push the, you know.
China's got its hands lovingly around our throat because our elite have been
moving into greater and greater states of China dependence. Right.
And so I think this is what the community refers to as breath play.
And I don't like it.
I get plays like he kind of like half choke somebody. Yeah.
How do you know that? What I don't like the fact that, you know.
I went to MIT, MIT is wildly at the,
so many white wire geeks, uh, and,
and ask these into that somebody said, lots of rules.
What's an Aspy as far as.
Serious people, right? Lots of rules. They like, they like,
they love rules because they're hope because to do all of this stuff safely,
you would have to have a huge hierarchy of rules. And my claim is,
is that China is,
they supply so much of our stuff. We've moved all of our,
uh, you know, manufacturing base into these crazy supply chains.
And we are completely dependent on a strategic rival. And you know,
China's very careful if you remember, when they,
when they hosted the Olympics to have these amazingly impressive displays
that are always friendly.
But what they're really saying is we have our together.
And our system was hackable. It was open as law. For example,
if you have a company that has, um, a duty to its shareholders,
the directors of the company must do what is EV whatever is in the best interest
of the shareholders and everything else doesn't matter.
Then you can have a situation where a director has to move things to China,
because that isn't the best interest of the shareholders.
Even if it's an absolutely not in the best interest of the United States.
This is what Ralph Ghamari,
who used to head the Sloan foundation once said an address I was at at the
national academy of sciences. He just said, as a director,
I am incentivized to do exactly the wrong thing for the United States of
America. So I'm going to put one hat on and tell you as an American,
we must not move all of this over to China.
And then I'm going to put my director's hat on,
and I'm going to vote to move everything over to China because I have no choice.
And so, you know, in essence, the smart, good people, all 11 of them, uh,
were always fighting.
This thing about you cannot become China dependent.
And in, during the big nap,
there was no way to make this argument convincingly. You couldn't say, look,
we have a serious strategic problem by your continuing moves
to bring China in as the solution to every equation we can't balance.
And that, that is really the problem is,
is that there wasn't any ability to say we are way too dependent on a
strategic rival. You saw this at the beginning of the pandemic,
everyone was afraid of what? I don't want to appear xenophobic.
I don't want to appear like chicken little, right? And so all of our friends,
the nutcases, the marginal weirdos,
the supposedly Grifters and gadflies are the people who most got this one,
right? And early,
and all the respectable people like Nancy Pelosi telling people,
please go to Chinatown to celebrate the Chinese new year.
Bill de Blasio of New York saying, despite Corona, coronavirus, get out there,
let you know, don't lead your lives. Don't don't let this thing hold you back.
These people need to resign. Nancy Pelosi should resign.
It's one thing to say, we don't have enough information about this.
It's another thing to say. Um, take the information that's coming in,
disregard it and get back in there and keep fueling the economy.
This is exactly our leadership class, their problem.
They think about this in short-term economics, the,
the long-term implications of us all sheltering in place.
Nobody can compute the consequences of it.
Not one person in the world knows what happens when you run this experiment.
Yeah. It's a new thing. Right? The maiden America argument was always like,
sort of a frivolous, almost seen a phobic. Like,
why do you want things made in America? What do you care? Do you not?
Do not like people from other countries?
Do you not want to buy things from other countries?
It was like this made of made in America thing was people disregarded it in a
lot of ways. But when you realize that all of our medical supplies,
like so much of our electronics, so much of all the,
the stuff that you need to kind of keep things exactly the way they are,
it's cheaper to make it over there because they will like what we saw with
Foxconn,
where they put nets around the building to keep people from jumping off.
And the weirdest thing was people trying to argue that the suicide rate at
Foxconn was essentially the same as the suicide rate in the general population.
Well, you ever heard that argument? Like, what the are you talking about?
That's where they work. There's nets around where they work.
Because so many people where they work,
jump off the building to end their life because their life sucks that bad that
they killed themselves at work. Do you know rare?
It is to kill yourself at work, probably pretty rare. You know how common it is,
where you have to put nets around the building. You're like, look,
we're getting really tired of people going to the roof and jumping off because
it's the easiest way to kill yourself. They're going to get more creative.
Yeah.
The problem is we are all hooked up to this need for cheap
products profits. When we can't figure out how to innovate enough,
to actually create the juice in our own system.
And therefore we have to rationally. You were going to say, no.
I was just gonna say, I mean, also we've gotten into this idea of every year.
We have to have a newer, better piece of electronics.
Like if you had to go the rest of your life with an iPhone 11,
how much would you suffer?
Um, not that much,
although I would say that many of us are not that excited about the next phone.
That, that, that itself is an antiquated thing.
I'm saying, it's like, why can't they make it so that you can just fix this?
Yeah. You know what I mean? Like w who the fixes their phone?
You don't fix your phone. You bring it in.
You can get.
Well, not Depression-era thinking. It's like,
why can't things be sustained?
No, no, I,
the plant's obsolescence and the need to constantly update so that you,
you're never, it's a tricky problem.
If you need growth to power your system, then in a weird way,
it makes sense not to build the optimal phone, right?
Because if you were to build the optimal phone and then people stopped renewing
everything, your systems, then your system weirdly breaks down.
So it makes sense that the level of the phone that you wouldn't want to do that,
but weirdly in aggregate, if you can't start innovate,
if you can't figure out how to restart innovation in a big way.
Now you're stuck with either having to Le learn to live in steady state,
which none of us, we Americans have no program for living in steady state.
We need growth.
That was the whole point of the embedded growth obligation idea that it's
suffused throughout every institution, every pension plan assumes growth. Right.
Right. All right.
So now we have this problem where we don't have the growth and we need the
growth. And then in a weird way,
the planned obsolescence is like fake growth.
It means that we're going to rebuy our phones even as if they were now
highly innovative.
So there's like a weird way in which we become dependent on nonsense.